Add logs and rum analysis guide for sheets (#25215)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/sheets/guide/logs_analysis.md

## Using pivot tables for analysis

Pivot tables help you summarize and organize large datasets to find patterns and trends.

1. From an existing spreadsheet that already has a table of data, click **Add Pivot Table**.
2. In the **Rows** section, select the dimensions you want to analyze, such as the status of logs.
3. In the **Calculations** section, choose the dimensions for calculations, like sum, average, count, min, and max.

## Example use case: Analyzing retail application error logs

You have a retail web application that generates a series of error logs related to `returns`. You want to analyze what types of errors are causing these issues. Follow these steps to analyze your error logs, identify patterns, and gain insights into the underlying issues causing errors in your retail application. Apply this example to your logs to gain a deeper understanding of your logs and make data-driven decisions.

### Example logs

- `Failed getting returns for the customer!`
- `Failed to calculate returns for the customer!`
- `Failed to handle returns for the customer!`

### Analyze error logs

> 1. From the [Logs Explorer][1], build a logs query that filters down to Error logs from your retail application with the words “returns” in the log message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the [Logs Explorer][1], build a logs query that filters down to Error logs from your retail application with `returns` in the log message. For example:
```

      ```
      status:error service:shopist-returns-prod returns
      ```

>       {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/error_logs_returns.png" alt="Logs Explorer showing the query for Erros Logs from example retail application that contain the word returns in the log message" style="width:80%;" >}}

Reviewer: What does it look like if you make this image 100% width?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think so

>       {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/error_logs_returns.png" alt="Logs Explorer showing the query for Erros Logs from example retail application that contain the word returns in the log message" style="width:80%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/error_logs_returns.png" alt="Logs Explorer showing a query for Error logs from an example retail application that contain 'returns' in the log message" style="width:80%;" >}}
```

>       {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/error_logs_returns.png" alt="Logs Explorer showing a query for Error logs from an example retail application that contain 'returns' in the log message" style="width:80%;" >}}
> 1. Click **Open in Sheets** to create a new table to analyze these logs.
>       {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/open_in_sheets.png" alt="Modal to add a title to your new spreadsheet from Logs, such as 'Returns error analysis'" style="width:80%;" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
      {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/error_logs_returns.png" alt="Logs Explorer showing a query for Error logs from an example retail application that contain 'returns' in the log message" style="width:100%;" >}}
1. Click **Open in Sheets** to create a new table to analyze these logs.
      {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/open_in_sheets.png" alt="Modal to add a title to your new spreadsheet from Logs, such as 'Returns error analysis'" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

>       {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/open_in_sheets.png" alt="Modal to add a title to your new spreadsheet from Logs, for example: Returns error analysis" style="width:80%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/open_in_sheets.png" alt="Modal to add a title to your new spreadsheet from Logs, such as 'Returns error analysis'" style="width:80%;" >}}
```

### Extract specific error data

> 1. Add a calculated column in Sheets to pull out the specific issue with the return using the `REGEXEXTRACT` function:

Reviewer: This one doesn't need to be a list at all if it's the only step :)

     ```
     =REGEXEXTRACT(#'Message', "Failed (?:to )?(\w+)")
     ```

> ### Analyze error types:

Author: ```suggestion
### Analyze error types
```

> 1. Create a pivot table to count the number of errors per error type (getting, calculating, handling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a pivot table to count the number of errors per error type (`getting`, `calculating`, and `handling`).
```

1. Summarize the data to understand the distribution and total impact of each error type.

>       {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/calculated_column_pivot_table.mp4" alt="Video walkthrough of the steps to analyze error logs" video=true >}}

Reviewer: This video is now confusing because it corresponds to more than one step. Can you break this up into individual screenshots or videos?

Author: I'll add a separate tasker for this!

---
title: Analyze Error Logs Using Sheets
further_reading:
- link: "/sheets/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Datadog Sheets"
- link: "/sheets/functions_operators/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Sheets Functions and Operators"
---

## Overview

Datadog Sheets is a spreadsheet tool that you can populate with Datadog data to perform complex analyses and build reports without requiring technical expertise. 

> This guide walks through creating a table of error logs, adding calculated columns to extract specific error details from error messages, using pivot tables to summarize the data and identify patterns, and offers an [example use case](#example-use-case-analyzing-retail-application-error-logs) of this workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks through creating a table of error logs, adding calculated columns to extract specific error details from error messages, and using pivot tables to summarize the data and identify patterns. It also offers an [example use case](#example-use-case-analyzing-retail-application-error-logs) of this workflow.
```

   - Build a logs query that filters down to Error logs from your retail application with the words “returns” in the log message.
        ```
        status:error service:shopist-returns-prod returns
        ```
        {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/error_logs_returns.png" alt="Logs Explorer showing the query for Erros Logs from example retail application that contain the word returns in the log message" style="width:80%;" >}}

   - Click **Open in Sheets** to create a new table to analyze these logs.
        {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/open_in_sheets.png" alt="Modal to add a title to your new spreadsheet from Logs, for example: Returns error analysis" style="width:80%;" >}}

2. **Extract Specific Error Data**:
   - Add a calculated column in Sheets to pull out the specific issue with the return using the `REGEXEXTRACT` function:
     ```
     =REGEXEXTRACT(#'Message', "Failed (?:to )?(\w+)")
     ```

3. **Analyze Error Types**:
   - Create a pivot table to count the number of errors per error type (getting, calculating, handling).
   - Summarize the data to understand the distribution and total impact of each error type.

>         {{< img src="/sheets/guide/logs_analysis/calculated_column_pivot_table.mp4" alt="Video walkthrough of the steps to analyze error logs" video=true >}}

Reviewer: This looks like it should be a sequence of only numbered steps, not numbered steps with unordered lists under them. It might still make sense to break it into three ordered lists with subheadings (H4s?), but the current formatting implies a lack of ordering that I don't think is correct.

> By following these steps, you can effectively analyze your error logs, identify patterns, and gain insights into the underlying issues causing errors in your retail application. Apply this example to your use case to gain a deeper understanding of your logs and make data-driven decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By following these steps, you can effectively analyze your error logs, identify patterns, and gain insights into the underlying issues causing errors in your retail application. Apply this example to your logs to gain a deeper understanding of your logs and make data-driven decisions.
```
